VOICE GUARD END-USER TRANSCRIPT

1. Default pre-push scan of a real feature branch carrying internal voice
fm-prepush-voice-guard.sh: REFUSING - firstmate internal voice found in the commits not yet on the default branch.
This text would become permanent public history under the repository owner's name.

  commit a72ddb281991 - fix(ci): Captain, fixed the stale-throttle inheritance. Changes remain uncommitted for the outer executor
    line 1 matched captain-address-opening
      in:      fix(ci): Captain, fixed the stale-throttle inheritance. Changes remain uncommitted for the outer executor
      matched: : Captain,
      fix:     A commit message describes a change to the repository; it never addresses a person. Drop the address and state the change.
    line 1 matched delivery-machinery-handoff
      in:      fix(ci): Captain, fixed the stale-throttle inheritance. Changes remain uncommitted for the outer executor
      matched:  outer executor
      fix:     Published history must not narrate how the change was validated or which agent finishes it. State what the change does.

  How to clear this refusal:
    Reword the message so it states what the change does, then re-run this check:
      git commit --amend        for the tip commit
      git rebase -i <base>      then mark the named commits "reword"
    Inside a no-mistakes run, respond to the gate and let the pipeline reword; do not push around this check.
    Inspect the full rule table with: bin/fm-prepush-voice-guard.sh --list-patterns
exit status: 1

2. Default pre-push scan of a real feature branch using required technical vocabulary
exit status: 0 (clean scans are intentionally silent)

3. Pull-request text scan carrying the required session-pointer form
fm-prepush-voice-guard.sh: REFUSING - firstmate internal voice found in the supplied text.
This text would become permanent public history under the repository owner's name.

  text
    line 1 matched internal-session-pointer
      in:      Claude-Session: https://claude.ai/code/session_01HoVE1w6AQB5qritmXc1aLC
      matched: Claude-Session: https://
      fix:     Published history must not link the working session that produced the change. Delete the trailer.
    line 1 matched internal-session-link
      in:      Claude-Session: https://claude.ai/code/session_01HoVE1w6AQB5qritmXc1aLC
      matched: https://claude.ai/code/session_01HoVE1w6AQB5qritmXc1aLC
      fix:     Published history must not link the working session that produced the change. Remove the link.

  How to clear this refusal:
    Reword the text above, then re-run this check.
    Inspect the full rule table with: bin/fm-prepush-voice-guard.sh --list-patterns
exit status: 1

4. Pull-request text scan using repository vocabulary and ordinary session language
exit status: 0 (clean scans are intentionally silent)
