Generic process-to-event runner: supervise a registered long-polling child
outside the agent's foreground turn and turn completed results into normalized
durable wakes.

Usage:
  fm-procevent.sh register <adapter> <source-id> -- <argv>...
  fm-procevent.sh register-extension <adapter> <source-id> --config-ref <reference>
  fm-procevent.sh start <source-id>
  fm-procevent.sh reconcile
  fm-procevent.sh classify <result-file>
  fm-procevent.sh handled <source-id> <sequence>
  fm-procevent.sh retire <source-id> [--if-absent|--if-matches <adapter> -- <argv>...|--if-owner <registration-token>]
  fm-procevent.sh sweep-home [--preflight]
  fm-procevent.sh binding-retirement-preflight <binding-digest>
  fm-procevent.sh extension-retirement <binding|transfer> <retirement-arguments...>
  fm-procevent.sh extension-bind <bind|receive-transfer-bind> <binding-arguments...>
  fm-procevent.sh extension-process-event <process-event-arguments...>
  fm-procevent.sh list

register   Record a built-in source: its adapter, its canonical id, and the
           exact argv to execute. argv is stored one argument per line and
           executed directly, so there is no shell surface and no argument
           splitting. Built-in adapters register sources; nothing here parses
           user text.
register-extension
           Resolve an explicitly enabled home-local process-event-adapter/1
           binding, verify its package and handshake, and record the source
           configuration reference with the exact extension id/version,
           capability version, package digest, binding digest, and a fresh
           registration token. The tracked extension host constructs every
           invocation; no package argv or shell command is stored.
classify   Ask the immutable adapter owner captured beside <result-file> for a
           bounded classification. Built-in results keep their existing
           script command; extension results must still match the exact bound
           package identity captured with them.
start      Claim the source, run its child to completion, durably capture the
           output, publish normalized wakes for pending results, then release
           the claim. It blocks for as long as the source blocks and is meant
           to run as a supervised background process, never in a conversational
           turn. After publishing, it asks the source's own adapter whether the
           captured result ends the source and retires the registration when it
           says so, so a source that has ended stops being restarted.
reconcile  Idempotent liveness entry the watcher calls on its ordinary cycle:
           republish every durably captured result with no handled
           acknowledgement yet - regardless of any earlier publication - and
           start a runner for any registered source that has no live owner.
           This is liveness repair only - it never discovers results by
           polling the source, because the child blocks on the source itself.
handled    Durably and idempotently record that a captured result has been
           fully handled: <source-id> <sequence>. Prints "handled: id seq"
           the first time for that exact source-and-sequence generation and
           "already-handled: id seq" on every repeat call, atomically
           deduplicated so a paired external effect is never authorized
           twice. Until this is called, the result stays eligible for
           bounded re-announcement on every reconcile. Marking a result
           handled does not retire its source registration or claim.
retire     Drop a registration, stop a runner this home owns, release the claim.
           Idempotent, and still the supported explicit path after a source has
           already retired itself on its adapter's terminal verdict. Existing
           unconditional built-in retirement remains compatible. An external
           registration requires --if-owner. --if-matches compares a complete
           built-in registration, --if-absent refuses while any registration
           exists, and --if-owner removes only the exact extension registration
           token printed by register-extension, so a stale owner cannot retire
           a replacement generation.
sweep-home Retire a bounded snapshot of this home's registrations and owned
           claims, then refuse unless no registration, runner record, or owned
           claim remains. Used by supported Firstmate home retirement.
binding-retirement-preflight
           Refuse while an extension registration or unhandled captured result
           still owns the exact enabled binding digest. Called by the tracked
           extension host before identity-conditional binding retirement.
extension-retirement
           Serialize one tracked binding or transfer retirement against
           extension resolution and registration publication in this home.
extension-bind
           Serialize tracked binding publication against extension resolution,
           registration publication, and retirement in this home.
list       Show registered sources, owners, and pending captured results.

Terminal knowledge is adapter-owned. This runner never inspects a result and
never names an adapter-specific status: built-ins keep the existing
`bin/fm-procevent-<adapter>.sh terminal <result-file>` path, while an external
result uses the exact process-event-adapter/1 package identity captured beside
it. Exit 0 is the only terminal verdict. A missing command, an error, or any
other exit keeps the registration armed, so an adapter that has no notion of
ending needs no change.

Routine no-op knowledge is adapter-owned through the same kind of seam. Some
sources produce a result that carries no news at all - a review surface that
simply closed with nothing said - and announcing it makes the handler read a
wake to learn that nothing happened. So before publishing, this runner asks
the immutable captured adapter owner - the built-in `silent` command or the
bound extension operation - and treats exit 0 as the only silence verdict: the
result is recorded handled and never announced, so it neither wakes a handler
now nor returns on a later reconcile. A missing command, an error, or any other
exit publishes the wake exactly as before, so an adapter with no notion of a
no-op needs no change and an unknown or degraded result always reaches its
handler. This runner still inspects nothing and still names no adapter-specific
condition. For built-ins, silence remains independent of the keyed-answer feed
below: suppressing an announcement never suppresses the captain's own answer.

Applying a built-in result is adapter-owned through the same kind of seam. Some results
carry no judgement at all - they must simply be applied idempotently to the
home's own durable state - and leaving that to an agent that has to remember
means it silently does not happen. So after publishing, `start` calls
`bin/fm-procevent-<adapter>.sh autohandle <source-id> <sequence> <result-file>`
and lets the adapter apply and acknowledge its own result. Exit 0 means the
adapter fully handled it. A missing command, an error, or any other exit is not
a failure of capture: the result stays unacknowledged and therefore eligible
for re-announcement, so the handler still receives it exactly as before. This
runner still inspects nothing and still names no adapter-specific condition.
External bindings deliberately receive no autohandle operation.

Built-in announcement is adapter-owned through one more seam of the same kind. An
adapter that answers exit 0 to `bin/fm-procevent-<adapter>.sh self-announcing`
declares that every result its autohandle fully applies is announced through a
durable downstream channel of its own (for remote-reply, the mirrored parent
status append the watcher's signal scan detects). For such an adapter, `start`
runs autohandle FIRST and publishes a check wake only for what remains
unhandled afterwards, so a fully autohandled capture never produces a second
announcement and a byte-identical replay produces none at all. Every other
adapter keeps the strict publish-before-apply order, because without a
declared downstream channel an applied-and-acknowledged result would otherwise
go silent. An unhandled result stays eligible for bounded re-announcement on
every reconcile in both modes, exactly as before.

Keyed captain answers from built-in adapters use one more seam of the same kind,
and this runner still decides nothing about them. Some sources carry the
captain's answer to a captain-held task. What such an answer MEANS is owned
once, by bin/fm-captain-hold.sh's keyed-answer intake, and reaching it must not
depend on an agent remembering. So after capture, a bound source
has its result passed to
`bin/fm-procevent-<adapter>.sh answers <result-file>`, and whatever that prints
is piped straight into that one intake. The adapter reports only what the
captain chose; the intake owns every rule about what happens next. This runner
names no adapter, parses no result, and knows no decision rule, so a future
built-in source needs nothing here beyond an `answers` command and a binding.
Reconcile selections use the parallel `reconciles` adapter command and the
binding-verified `reconcile-requests` intake, never the keyed-answer value.
External binding responses never enter either authority-bearing intake.

Feeding is deliberately independent of handling: it never acknowledges a result
and never suppresses a wake. Recording the captain's answer is transcription,
while ACTING on it is firstmate's judgement, so the capture stays unacknowledged
and its `check` wake reaches the handler exactly as it would have anyway.

A runner is bound to the HOME that owns it, not to the one session that armed
it: a persistent source is meant to outlive that session, so reconcile stops a
runner whose source is retired in a live home, and this lease is the backstop
for a home that is GONE. Detaching a runner into its own
process group is what lets a persistent source outlive the turn that armed it,
and with nothing else it is also what lets a runner outlive its whole home:
reparented to init, it keeps its blocking child - and everything that child
spawns - running with nobody left to reap it. So every runner starts a small
guard beside it, in its own separate process group, which re-reads the owning
state root's lease on a bounded cadence and stops the runner's whole process
group once that lease can no longer be proved fresh. Owner-presence operations
refresh the lease, an attached public start keeps it fresh while its caller
remains attached, and the watcher's reconcile cycle keeps it fresh in a live
home. A runner exports the inherited FM_PROCEVENT_IN_RUNNER marker and every
refresh is skipped under it, so a runner and its ordinary children do not
certify their own owner. That rule is CONFUSED-AGENT-GRADE, the grade
bin/fm-lease-lib.sh documents: a source that DELIBERATELY strips the marker
can still refresh, and adversarial-grade unforgeability is out of scope (see
docs/configuration.md). Scope is the owning state root and one runner
generation, never a script or process name, so a live source in
another home is untouched. See bin/fm-procevent-lib.sh for the lease itself.

Ownership is machine-wide per canonical source, because separate Firstmate
homes can share one underlying source store. A live owner is never displaced;
only a claim whose stale owner and independently absent process group prove
its whole generation gone is reclaimed. A crashed leader or reused pid whose
process group still has members cannot relax ownership cleanup. Reconcile
signals only a live identity-matched runner group and otherwise keeps the
claim without starting a replacement.

Durability boundary: see bin/fm-procevent-lib.sh. This runner proves capture
before publication and bounded re-announcement until handled, and nothing
about the source side of the handoff.
